what's up guys my name is Brandon and
today Apple finally released iOS 18.4
beta 1 to register developers and soon
to public beta testers now along with
this release we also got the first beta
for iPad OS 18.4 watch OS 11.4 Mac OS
Sequoia 15.4 TV OS and homod Os 18.4
Vision OS 2.4 and for older Macs we got
Mac OS
14.7.99 .5 and those were both the RC
release so a very rare Friday Beta
release roll out from Apple but anyways
in this video we're talking all about
iOS and iPad OS 18.4 beta 1 starting off
with the size you can see it came in at
a massive 7.72 GB on my iPhone 16 Pro
Max which was coming from IOS 18.3
point1 and as far as the build number
goes if we head into our settings and
check out the new build number it is 22
2 e
5200s so we have an S at the end of the
build number which indicates that we do
have quite a few betas to go before the
final release which we talk about that
final release near the end of this video
and if we go down to the modem firmware
that is now
13.02 for the iPhone 16 series all right
so now what's new here in iOS 18.4 beta
1 and the first thing has to do with the
control center so if we swipe down to go
into our Control Center and we tap on
the plus up in the top left and we go to
add a control and we scroll down the
very first section here is new with iOS
18.4 and this is called ambient music so
what this does is you can add these
toggles to the control center to play
music based on that mood so if you're
trying to sleep you can have sleep if
you're trying to chill you can do chill
same with productivity and wellbeing and
when you add those this is what they
look like right here in the control
center if you go ahead and tap on let's
just say sleeping for example it will
start playing that music that matches
the corresponding mood and if you go
into the app switcher here you can see
you know what is actually playing that
music it's actually in apple music so
we'll go and pause that but you can see
you know it a spiritual Embrace and this
is the appreciation for sleep but you'll
notice that if you go into the Apple
music application it does not show that
it's playing right there which to me
indicates that this does not require an
apple music account and it ALS Al is not
going to mess with your you know Apple
music algorithm which is nice let go
ahead and remove this one so we can get
them all up there so yeah that is what
those look like this is really cool and
it's a kind of a better version of
background sounds in my opinion it's
kind of like a feature piggybacking off
of that obviously a different use case
but that's what it reminds me of so
that's the first thing that's new here
in 18.4 beta 1 and we also have
something new with the sliders right
here for our volume and our brightness
so you'll notice that if you go down
that turns white now before with iOS
18.3 point1 if you went down to 0% on
the volume or on the brightness it would
stay that blue color and for brightness
it would stay that yellow color but now
it turns white for both the volume and
for the brightness and you'll also
notice for our cellular toggle right
here it will actually change based on
your signal so right now it shows the
full amount of bars but that will change
based on what your actual signal is so
you can see it went down right there now
it only shows three bars and that shows
shows up in the little mini
representation of the widget platter
right there as well so before that just
showed full bars no matter what now it
corresponds to your actual you know
cellular connectivity and here's a
change that a lot of people are going to
miss or just simply Overlook but it's
something I noticed pretty much right
away because it is a quality of life
change so if you go down to a section in
the control center say you want to add
something from the connectivity platter
we'll just go ahead and add cellular
data so it takes us right there you know
to where it added that in our control
center but when we go back to add a
control you can see that before we'd
have to go back to the top and then we'd
have to go all the way back down to the
bottom to where we just were if we want
to add more connectivity toggles but
with 18.4 if you tap on ADD control it
stays where you were last so if you were
in a section or if you search for
something or if you're you know halfway
down scrolling it will take you right
back to where you were that way you
don't have to start all the way at the
top of control center again this is a
small change like I said but it's
something very handy and again this does
also work when you search for something
so if I search search for ambient like
ambient music right here and I add one
and then I go back to add control it
remembers my search query and it you
know shows me where I left off really
nice now after I installed iOS 18.4 beta
1 I had to install the new Apple
intelligence models and you'll see it
shows right here downloading support for
Apple intelligence connect iPhone to
Wi-Fi and power while models are
downloading and this lasted quite a bit
of time it took a lot longer to download
than I thought so if you're seeing that
be sure to connect your device to power
so make sure it's charging while on
Wi-Fi that's going to get you through
that download process a lot faster but
it did take quite a bit this time around
thought I should mention that now also
Apple intelligence is available in the
EU starting with iOS
18.4 so this is a big change because of
course EU users have not had Apple
intelligence yet so it's now going to be
available in the EU starting with beta 1
of 18.4 also it's coming to more
languages if you go into your settings
here for Apple intelligence in Siri
we're now going to have apple
intelligence support for French German
Italian Portuguese for Brazil Spanish
Japanese Korean and Chinese as well as
localized English for Singapore and for
India so if you've been in another
country besides the supported countries
before this is going to be a big update
for you it's especially going to be a
big update for those in the EU since
they were the main ones who were left
out of apple intell Ence as a whole now
speaking of Apple intelligence we have
another big change that we've been
waiting on ever since iOS 18 beta 1 came
out ever since it was first introduced
at WWDC and that is if we go into our
settings and go to Notifications right
down here we have a new section for
Apple intelligence this was not there
before and you'll notice that not only
do we have summarized notifications
which is not new but we now have
prioritize notifications so this is the
new feature that we've been waiting on
for quite some time and this allows
Apple intelligence to show you
notifications that may be important in a
separate section on the lock screen so
you can catch up on what you may have
missed so I've tried getting this to
work it does not work for me I have a
ton of notifications here but it's not
categorizing them just yet for me it
probably just has to learn my
notifications and everything but this is
off by default so you might want to go
in here and enable this if you have
apple intelligence turned on that way
you can have your priority notifications
show up above all the other you know
perhaps irrelevant notifications that
you might have on the lock screen
alongside the important ones I could
already Envision this becoming one of my
favorite Apple intelligence features
because it's something that's going to
make a difference you know a fundamental
difference to how I use my phone on a
day-to-day basis it's going to really
help me see those important
notifications right away from my lock
screen so I'll report back I'll probably
show you guys this in action in apple
weekly tomorrow or at some point in the
future once I get it working properly on
my lock screen we also have a change in
in the image playground application so
if you have image playground and you tap
on the plus right here to choose the
style for your you know image playground
image here we now have the option to
choose sketch so before it was just
animation and illustration but now you
can create a sketch of whatever you add
into here and they look quite
interesting so you can see it kind of
looks like a a book which I guess is the
point of that so this is the combination
that led to this sketch right there so
pretty cool to have more options in here
it is quite buggy an 18.4 want I have to
say a lot more buggy than 18.3 so just
keep that in mind in the messages
application if you go into the Emoji
picker and you look right here to the
right of the search field to describe an
emoji we now have a change to the Gen
emoji button so before it just showed
the glyph icon and that was it now it
has the full text along with a slightly
larger version of that glyph icon so
it's more obvious what this actually
does since a lot of people were kind of
confused and kind of just missed that
that button was even there before now
for those wondering about visual
Intelligence on the iPhone 15 series we
did hear that it will be coming to the
iPhone 15 series however it is not
enabled just yet with iOS 18.4 beta 1 so
I did test this on my iPhone 15 Pro Max
and I do not have visual intelligence so
you know we will see that in the control
center so it will be a control center
toggle which of course you can map to
the action button as well since before
we did need the camera control now it's
just going to be a simple control center
toggle but once again it is not there
with beta 1 but I would expect that in
the coming betas now as far as the big
Seri changes coming in iOS 18.4 it does
not appear that any of those are in iOS
18.4 beta 1 so the onscreen awareness
you know the personal context all of
those things do not appear to be here in
18.4 beta 1 you've always been able to
do things like what's on my screen right
now and when you say that it will just
send it to chat GPT so that's nothing
new but you know here in 18.4 beta 1 we
do not have any of the features that
were advertised which we do know that
some of those are coming in iOS 18.5 but
I would still expect some of those here
in 18.4 maybe just in a future beta in
the shortcuts application we have a new
action for open conversation so this
allows you to open a specific
conversation in the messages application
which is quite cool you can see you can
select from the contacts right there so
if I select this contact it will open
that conversation when I run this
shortcut so let's try this real quick
let's press on play and you can see it
opens up that specific conversation we
also have a change to the Siri voice for
Australia so if you go into your
settings and go to your Apple
intelligence and series settings and
then you go into voice and then to
Australian you can see that we now have
four options whereas before in 18.3
point1 we only had two options now
there's also a new Standalone Apple
Vision Pro application for the iPhone
with iOS 18.4 so I did not get this to
show up here in beta 1 one but it will
be coming with IOS 18.4 as Apple put out
a press release talking about Apple
Intelligence coming to the Apple Vision
Pro with vision OS 2.4 and there's also
now an application for the iPhone to be
able to queue applications and games to
download to discover new spatial content
and experiences easily find helpful tips
and quickly access information about
their device from their iPhone so it's
going to be very similar to what we have
with the watch application so if you
have an Apple Watch you know how you
have the application to manage your
Apple watch I'm imagining that this
application will work very similarly so
it's going to be very similar to what we
have with the watch for the 12 people
out there with the Vision Pro like
myself now here's a Cool Change in iOS
18.4 and apple is pretty much
sherlocking a lot of the recipe
applications out there with this feature
so if you go into the Apple News
application and maybe not because this
is a paid server so you do have to have
Apple news Plus for this so maybe it
won't Sherlock some of those
applications but anyways if you go into
Apple news plus here and you go into the
food section we have news plus food and
this is going to show you recipes that
you can save and just follow along with
so let me show you why this is cool so
you can see the interface here is
awesome it's very Apple likee it reminds
me of you know the invites application
and sports all their you know new design
language for these applications so you
can see what it looks like right there
you can see the ingredients the
instructions all of that so if we go
here and go to cook you can see it shows
us basically the directions in an apple
music music lyrics like interface which
is pretty cool and you can kind of see
how that goes there and if you tap on
the timer you can set a timer right from
this section and you can go back and
forth to the ingredients and the
directions as well and swipe down to see
more information about that and again
you can save these for offline use as
well and by the way you could also
search for things as well and you can
see different categories up here and
there's also things like week night
chicken dinners kind of just different
categories of recipes as well popular
categories bone all recipes you know you
can see there's quite a bit in here and
even the filter up here is pretty cool
as well because you can filter by how
long it takes to cook that item along
with the dish type and more and for iPad
OS 18.4 and Mac OS 15.4 we now have the
new categorized mail UI so the UI here
where you can change you know the
category so between primary you know you
have your transactions your updates and
your promotions or you can see all mail
this new interface here is finally
available for the iPad and for the Mac
with this latest update now taking a
look at the release notes for iOS 18.4
beta 1 there are quite a few in here so
there are two known issues for Apple
intelligence but both of those do have
workarounds so they're not a big issue
we do also have a resolved issue for
notifications where scrolling through
notifications might cause them to
flicker or collapse momentarily I had
that bug so that's good to see that
fixed there is a known issue for Siri
you know you can see right there for
Siri suggestions might fail to complete
successfully but if it go down a little
bit further we do have something pretty
important here that you might need to
know about and that is for Wi-Fi calling
so it says Wi-Fi calling might not work
for US Cellular customers on iOS 18.4
beta and the important part to know here
is that the workaround is to basically
downgrade to iOS 18.3 to enable Wi-Fi
calling so if you're somebody who relies
on Wi-Fi calling a lot you need to avoid
iOS 18.4 beta 1 until this issue is
fixed and then there's a known issue for
writing tools when you tap on the
replace button right there and you can
see that there is a workaround for that
as well but as far as overall
performance here with iOS 18.4 beta 1
it's honestly not great like especially
in applications like image playground
it's very buggy it's very slow I've also
noticed some stutter in settings and
pretty much all the Apple intelligence
features are just a bit buggy here in
18.4 beta 1 so just keep that in mind it
is a first beta so that is kind of
expected I should not need to say that
but I still do want to mention that it's
not going to be the most stable build
I've not heard of anything catastrophic
happening to people so I wouldn't say
there's any critical bugs that I'm aware
of but as far as this overall
performance it does not feel quite as
good as it did in 18.3 point1 which of
course is expected that's a final
release this is a beta after all now we
did run a geekbench 6 test here the CPU
and we scored a 3526 on the single core
8767 on the multicore and you can see
how that compares to the previous runs
it actually scored higher than this
build of 18.3 point1 which is quite
interesting since it doesn't feel as
good you know stability wise but that is
good to see at least that the geek bench
score is a bit higher and then as far as
battery life goes battery life seems to
be a little bit worse than it was before
as well which again is expected from a
beta 1 I'm on 86% I believe I started
the video with over 90% so you know it
went down quite a bit in that period of
time a little bit more than what I'm
used to so I would not expect battery
life to be quite as good yet here with
beta 1 which again is expected so let's
talk about what to expect next because
we have a very rare Friday release Here
for iOS 18.4 beta 1 again I cannot
remember the last time we had a Friday
Beta release I know we've had public
releases but beta releases on Friday are
very rare so I would not expect to see
iOS 18.4 beta 2 for at least two weeks
so you know the week of the 3D is a
possibility or even the week of the 10th
of March is a possibility since we got
this on a Friday so usually with the
point4 updates between beta 1 and beta 2
there's typically a 2 we Gap so I doubt
that Apple's going to release another
beta on a Friday so that tells me that
we're either going to see it within two
weeks or a little over two weeks if it's
within two weeks it's going to be the
week of March 3rd if it's a little over
two weeks it's going to be the week of
March 10th but again at this point it's
hard to tell exactly which day that
would be so it could be right there on
March 11th so we'll have to wait and see
and then after that of course we are
going to see more betas and then the RC
and then we will eventually see the
final release of iOS 18.4 at some point
in April I would imagine that that would
come on the week of April 7th or the
week of April 14th but of course we will
have to wait and see how this beta cycle
goes so that is everything I found so
far in iOS 18.4 beta 1 I will continue
digging through the software and finding
new features and new changes no matter
how small they are so be sure to keep it
locked to the channel so you don't miss
sell on any of those new features and
changes in iOS 18.4 and of course future
versions as well but if you guys enjoyed
this video I would appreciate if you
give it a thumbs up also again be sure
to subscribe so you don't miss out on
future iOS update videos just like this
one but anyways guys thanks for watching
and I'll see you soon
